stupidbot Commands List
========================

Anyone can say these in chat:
- "Meow, stop."              -> bot cancels its current pathfinding goal

VOlcarona_Alt, SpeedStrafe04, or AustrichMC only:
- "Meow, tp to me."            -> bot sends /tpa <whichever of the three sent
                                   the message>
- "Meow, tp me to you."        -> bot sends /tpahere <whichever of the three
                                   sent the message>
- "Meow, walk to me."          -> bot pathfinds (walks, no teleport) to
                                   whichever of the three sent the message, if
                                   it can see them (says "Can't see <name>" if
                                   not loaded/nearby)
- "Meow, enable totem mode."   -> bot crouches 3 times, equips a Totem of
                                   Undying to its offhand (or says "Totem
                                   required" if it has none), and
                                   auto-re-equips a new totem whenever one
                                   is consumed
- "Meow, disable totem mode."  -> bot says "Totem mode disabled." and stops
                                   auto-re-equipping totems
- "Meow, do <command>"         -> bot runs /<command>
                                   (type the command without a leading slash,
                                   e.g. "Meow, do tpa SpeedStrafe04")
- "Meow, say <message>"        -> bot sends <message> verbatim to public chat
                                   (no leading slash; e.g. "Meow, say hello")
- "Meow, drop item."           -> bot drops whatever it's currently holding
- "Meow, offhand."             -> bot swaps whatever it's currently holding
                                   into its offhand
- "Meow, enable chat games."   -> bot says "Chat game solver enabled." and
                                   resumes detecting/solving Chat Games
- "Meow, disable chat games."  -> bot says "Chat game solver disabled." and
                                   stops detecting/solving Chat Games entirely
                                   (won't answer or record new puzzles until
                                   re-enabled)
- "Meow, toggle chat games."   -> flips the chat games solver on/off from
                                   whatever it currently is
- "Meow, toggle attack mode."  -> flips "attack hostile mobs" on/off (see
                                   notes below) - also a checkbox in the
                                   control panel
- "Meow, build <name> at <x> <y> <z>." (or "Meow, build <name> here." to
                                   anchor at the bot's current position
                                   instead) -> loads schematics/<name>.schem
                                   (or <name>.litematic) and builds it with
                                   that corner as the anchor (walks to each
                                   block, equips the matching item, and
                                   places it -
                                   see notes below)
- "Meow, gather wood (n)."     -> equips an axe if it has one, then finds and
                                   chops down trees (collecting the logs)
                                   until it has n logs or gives up - see
                                   notes below. "Meow, stop." cancels it.
- "Meow, list entities."       -> bot lists every nearby entity (type, name,
                                   display name, position, distance) to the
                                   console/log and says how many it found -
                                   useful for finding the exact name of a
                                   hub NPC on a new server

Automatic (no chat trigger needed):
- Auto-eats: once hunger drops to 8 of the 10 hunger-bar icons (food value
  16 out of the max 20), switches to whichever carried food restores the
  most hunger (ranked by raw hunger points, not saturation/duration) and
  keeps eating until full. No toggle - always on. Doesn't avoid "risky"
  foods like rotten_flesh (chance of the Hunger effect) - it's ranked
  purely by how much hunger it restores, same as anything else. "Attack
  hostile mobs" waits for an in-progress meal to finish instead of
  interrupting it to grab a weapon - eating requires continuously holding
  the food item, so switching mid-bite would cancel it anyway.
- Picking up any armor piece (helmet/chestplate/leggings/boots) auto-equips
  it, replacing whatever's currently worn in that slot, and drops the old
  piece on the ground. Only works if the picked-up armor lands in the
  hotbar (a server limitation, not a choice).
- On first spawn, registers via /register smolbrain smolbrain if this is a
  server the bot hasn't joined before (tracked in registered-hosts.json),
  waits 1.5s, then also logs in via /login smolbrain (some auth plugins
  don't auto-login right after registering). Known servers just log in
  directly as usual.
- server-config.json's "version" field is optional - leave it blank/unset
  (the control panel's Save Server field can be left empty) and the bot
  auto-detects the server's real Minecraft protocol version itself by
  pinging it before connecting, instead of guessing. A handful of hosts with
  their own version-specific bugs (currently just play.skeletonmc.com, which
  has broken item-component parsing and forces signed chat on its real
  1.21.11 backend) are hardcoded to a working fallback version regardless of
  this setting; only set "version" explicitly to override auto-detection for
  a specific server.
- If server-config.json sets "hubNpcName" for the current server (e.g.
  ggsmp.net's lobby requires right-clicking an NPC named "GG SMP" to enter
  the main server), the bot searches for an entity whose name contains that
  text after logging in and right-clicks it, retrying every 2s for up to
  20s in case the NPC hasn't loaded yet. Leave hubNpcName blank/unset for
  servers that don't need this (e.g. play.skeletonmc.com).
  If no entity's name literally matches (e.g. ggsmp.net's hub NPC uses a
  scrambled/obfuscated (section-sign "§") fake player username instead of
  literal text), it falls back to targeting whichever "§"-named fake player
  entity sits closest to a nearby armor_stand (these are usually the floating
  nametag/hologram above the NPC's head) - use "Meow, list entities." to spot
  candidates if this heuristic ever picks the wrong one.
- If the main server restarts while the bot is connected, Velocity-style
  networks typically fall the bot back to the lobby on the same connection
  (no kick/reconnect) rather than disconnecting it - the bot detects this
  and automatically retries the hub NPC search/click again, same as it does
  right after login.
- "CHAT GAMES" events: DISABLED BY DEFAULT as of 2026-08-14 - the account
  was banned ("afk farming chat games") for this exact behavior. Use
  "Meow, enable chat games." (or the control panel) to turn it back on at
  your own risk. When enabled: if the bot knows how to solve it (write-out/
  write-out-the-word puzzles, arithmetic "solve" puzzles, "solve for"
  equation systems, or fill-in-the-word/unscramble puzzles matching a word
  already learned in chatgame-words.json), it answers in public chat as
  soon as the puzzle is fully received (no artificial delay). Otherwise the
  puzzle is recorded in chatgames.txt (unanswered) for manual solving later
  - add an "Answer: <value>" line under the question to teach it that exact
  puzzle. Winner/result announcements aren't logged as puzzles, but any word
  they reveal is learned automatically for solving future fill-in/unscramble
  rounds using that same word.

Schematic builder notes/limitations (schematic-builder.js):
- Drop .schem files (Sponge or MCEdit format) or .litematic files
  (Litematica mod format) in schematics/.
- Loading either format decodes the schematic's full block volume in
  yielding batches (every 512 blocks) instead of one single synchronous
  pass - both the .litematic decoder (litematic-reader.js, which also does
  BigInt bit-array decoding per block, notably slower than plain number
  math) and prismarine-schematic's .schem loader are fully synchronous
  with no real event-loop yielding of their own, so a large schematic
  loaded in one shot could block the process for seconds on a big build.
  Same class of bug (and same live consequence - a long freeze delays
  every packet the bot should be sending, which a strict anticheat reads
  as exactly the timing irregularity its "bad packets" check exists to
  catch) as the one found and fixed in wood-gathering's tree search, just
  with a much larger worst case here since there's no search-radius
  equivalent capping the work in one call.
- Only *places* blocks - never breaks/clears existing terrain, so pick an
  anchor with clear space, or expect leftover terrain poking through.
- Never air-places: every placement always references a real, adjacent
  solid block (mineflayer's placeBlock has no "just set this air position
  to a block" mode - it's always a right-click-a-face interaction against
  a real reference block). On top of that, before placing it verifies the
  chosen reference face is actually visible/in reach (bot.blockAtCursor,
  the same raycast primitive used for the killaura fix in combat) rather
  than just trusting proximity to the target position - the pathfinder
  goal used to walk there is called with LOS:false, so it can stop close
  enough to the target without necessarily having a clear line of sight
  to the specific face that was picked as the reference. If the actual
  raycast doesn't land on that block (something's in the way), the
  placement is skipped instead of clicking through the obstruction.
  Live-verified in both directions: an unobstructed reference correctly
  passes, and a wall placed between the bot and a reference correctly
  fails.
- Skips any block it doesn't already have in its inventory (counts as
  "skipped" in the completion message) - stock the bot up first. Logs "Oops
  I ran out of materials" to the console (not public chat) the first time
  this happens in a build (not repeated for every subsequent missing block).
- Build progress ("Building...", "Oops I ran out of materials", "Build
  complete: X placed, Y skipped.") and "Meow, list entities." results are
  only logged to the console/control panel, never sent to public chat - both
  to avoid revealing bot activity and because rapid-fire status messages can
  hit the server's chat rate limit ("You can only send messages every 3.0
  seconds") and get silently dropped.
- Places blocks bottom-up (lowest Y first) for basic support, but doesn't
  reason about block orientation/rotation (stairs, doors, etc. may place
  facing the wrong way).
- When a placement point is too high to path to directly, bridges up to it
  with its own jump+place loop (using any placeable block it's carrying,
  preferring one other than what's actually needed for the current
  placement) rather than mineflayer-pathfinder's own built-in scaffolding,
  which is disabled entirely - it loses a race between the jump physics and
  the network round-trip for equipping/placing almost every cycle, making
  vertical building extremely slow. Each jump has its own 1.5s timeout too -
  without it, a jump that never gained enough height (blocked from above,
  misjudged reference block) left jump control state stuck on forever
  (reported live as the bot floating in place instead of just failing the
  jump), since the code waiting for it to succeed never gave up.
- Any bot.pathfinder.goto() call (used here, in wood gathering, and for hub
  NPC approach) is wrapped with an 8s timeout that force-stops pathfinder
  instead of potentially hanging forever - this happened for real during
  testing (a stuck goto() couldn't even be cancelled by "Meow, stop." since
  the cancellation flag is only checked between awaits).
- "Meow, stop." cancels an in-progress build (as well as any pathfinding).

Wood gathering notes/limitations ("Meow, gather wood (n)."):
- Automatically equips the correct tool category for whatever block it's
  about to break (axe for logs, pickaxe/shovel/hoe for anything else this
  gets used on later) if it's carrying one - re-checked before every single
  block, not just once at the start. No crafting - if it doesn't have the
  right tool, it just digs with whatever's already held (fist included)
  instead of refusing.
- Searches for the nearest log-type block (anything ending in "_log" or
  "_stem") within 32 blocks, giving up after 10 seconds if none is found.
  Searches in escalating radius tiers (8/16/24/32 blocks), yielding to the
  event loop between each tier, instead of one single big-radius scan -
  the underlying block search is fully synchronous and blocks the whole
  process for its duration (measured ~200ms for a single 48-block scan
  even on a small local test world), and a freeze that long delays every
  packet the bot should be sending, which reads to a strict anticheat as
  exactly the kind of timing irregularity a "bad packets" check exists to
  catch. Tiering keeps the common case (a tree found in the first tier or
  two) cheap and only pays for a bigger synchronous burst on rarer, wider
  searches.
- Once a tree is found, every log block connected to it (trunk plus any
  log-only branches) of that exact same wood type is chopped, stopping
  early the instant n total logs have been collected even if part of the
  tree is left standing.
- A log the bot can't actually path to (e.g. sealed behind other blocks) is
  permanently skipped for the rest of that gather instead of being found
  and retried forever as "the nearest tree".
- Verifies real, unobstructed line of sight to the log right before
  digging (bot.blockAtCursor, the same raycast used for the killaura fix
  in combat and the air-place fix in building) instead of trusting
  mineflayer-pathfinder's own internal check for where to stop walking.
  Live-reported the bot reaching through a leaf to break a log directly
  behind it; pathfinder's own line-of-sight check validates against the
  pathfinding node it stopped at, not necessarily the bot's exact final
  stance once equip/dig timing plays out, so it can pass even when the
  face actually being dug isn't really visible. If the independent
  recheck fails, that log is treated the same as any other unreachable
  one (skipped, tries the next queued log) rather than digging through
  the obstruction.
- Won't vandalize player builds made of log blocks (cabins, fences, etc.):
  before chopping, it checks whether the found log has *natural* leaves
  touching it (leaves with the "persistent" blockstate off - hand-placed
  leaves are always persistent so they never decay, so checking for that
  distinguishes a real tree from decorative leaves someone placed next to
  a log build); if not, it walks the chain of connected same-type logs (up
  to 7 total, including the one it found) looking for one with natural
  leaves adjacent. If one turns up, it confirms this is a real tree and
  chops the *original* log found (not the one where leaves were spotted).
  If none of the 7 has any, it's treated as a built structure - that log
  (and anything within 7 blocks of it) is skipped and it searches for a
  different tree instead.
- After finishing (or running out of) one tree, it searches again - but
  only for the same wood type as the first tree - for up to 10 seconds
  before giving up and stopping early with however many logs it has.
- Progress/results are console/log-only, same reasoning as the build
  command above. "Meow, stop." cancels an in-progress gather.
- Also stops itself automatically if a land-protection plugin replies with
  a "you're not allowed to break blocks here"/"don't have permission to
  break" message (e.g. WorldGuard), instead of uselessly retrying the same
  protected spot.

Attack hostile mobs notes ("Meow, toggle attack mode." / control panel
checkbox):
- On by default (both the bot itself and the control panel checkbox) - use
  "Meow, toggle attack mode." or the checkbox to turn it off.
- While enabled, checks every 150ms for the nearest hostile mob (zombie,
  skeleton, creeper, spider, slime, pillager, etc. - anything minecraft-data
  classifies as type "hostile", plus slime and pillager specifically since
  their classification isn't consistent across versions: slime is type "mob"
  everywhere, and pillager is type "mob" on older schemas like 1.16.5 despite
  being "hostile" on newer ones like 1.21.11) within 15 blocks and fights it;
  does nothing if no hostile is in range. Turning it off immediately stops
  all movement from this behavior.
- Equips whatever sword is available before an axe (axes remain the tool of
  choice for wood-gathering) - re-checked every combat tick, so it'll switch
  weapons mid-fight if inventory changes. Live-tested by giving the bot a
  sword only, an axe only, and both together (with the axe already held) -
  correctly used the sword whenever one was available.
- Chases the mob using real pathfinding (mineflayer-pathfinder's GoalFollow,
  dynamically updated as the mob moves) all the way in, rather than walking
  straight at it - routes around any obstacle a real mob would go around
  (walls, drops, diagonal corners) instead of getting stuck. Earlier
  versions tried to hold at an exact ~3-block standoff and hand off to blind
  manual movement for a final "sprint in and swing" lunge; that manual
  phase kept getting stuck (couldn't clear 2-block ledges, couldn't route
  around a diagonal 2-block corner) badly enough that it's been dropped
  in favor of just letting pathfinder drive the whole approach. This trades
  away the precise "always exactly 3 blocks away" positioning and the
  creeper-specific extra retreat-after-hit for something that reliably
  doesn't get stuck - worth knowing if you specifically need that tighter
  choreography back.
- Only ever swings at 3 blocks or closer, and only if the mob is actually
  visible (bot.entityAtCursor, which raycasts against blocks first) - won't
  attack through a wall just because a mob is within range on the other
  side of it, which it previously would (killaura-like behavior, reported
  live). Nudges sprint on right before each swing for vanilla's
  sprinting-hit knockback bonus (pathfinder owns the sprint control state
  the rest of the time and may override this again shortly after, so it's a
  best-effort nudge, not a guarantee).
- The cooldown timer is a fixed ~625ms approximation of vanilla sword
  timing, since mineflayer doesn't expose the real per-weapon attack
  cooldown - actual timing may be slightly off for non-sword weapons or
  bare-handed fighting.
- Fully stands down while "Meow, gather wood" or "Meow, build" is running -
  it won't chase or attack anything until the task finishes or is cancelled
  with "Meow, stop.". Both gatherWood/chopTree and buildSchematic also drive
  bot.pathfinder for their own walking, and this combat tick used to call
  setGoal on top of whatever they were doing every 150ms regardless -
  mineflayer-pathfinder rejects the interrupted goto() with "The goal was
  changed before it could be completed!" the instant that happens, and
  fighting over the single pathfinder goal like that produces constant,
  erratic, physically-inconsistent movement. This is exactly the pattern
  that got the bot anticheat-banned for "bad packets" on a live server
  while gathering wood near a hostile mob - reproduced reliably on the
  local test server and fixed by having combat defer entirely during those
  two tasks. Trade-off: no self-defense while gathering/building, even if
  something is actively attacking the bot.

Local test server (for testing without ggsmp.net's flaky connection):
- A Paper 1.21.11 server lives at ~/mc-test-server (outside this repo -
  large jar + generated world data, not meant to be committed). Start it
  with: cd ~/mc-test-server && java -Xmx2G -Xms1G -jar paper-1.21.11.jar
  --nogui
- It's configured offline-mode=false (required - this bot doesn't do real
  Microsoft auth) and generates a superflat world in a forest biome
  (features enabled) so trees spawn naturally for wood-gathering tests,
  plus normal mob spawning for combat tests. spawn-protection is 0 so the
  bot can dig/build near spawn.
- To point the bot at it: copy server-config.local.json over
  server-config.json (or use the control panel's Save Server fields:
  host=localhost, port=25565, leave hubNpcName blank - no lobby NPC needed
  locally). Copy server-config.json back from the ggsmp.net settings (or
  re-enter them) to switch back.
- Stop the server with a graceful `kill <pid>` (it saves on SIGTERM) rather
  than kill -9, to avoid corrupting world data.
